docs/usage.rst, before:

=====
Usage
=====

**Django**:

Add this to Django settings

.. code-block:: python

    MEDIA_URL = '/media/'
    DEFAULT_FILE_STORAGE = 'django_b2.storage.B2Storage'                 # if used without django-tenant-schemas
    # DEFAULT_FILE_STORAGE = 'django_b2.tenant_storage.TenantB2Storage'  # if used with django-tenant-schemas
    B2_APP_KEY_ID=000xxxxxxxxxxxx000000000n
    B2_APP_KEY=keyvalue
    B2_BUCKET_NAME=bucketname
    # optional, see bellow:
    MEDIA_ROOT = ..
    B2_LOCAL_MEDIA = ..  # "", "M", "L", "ML"

**Large uploads**:

Nginx large file uploads:
You need at least modify /etc/nginx/nginx.conf, http section, add client... settings.

Read: https://vsoch.github.io/2018/django-nginx-upload/

Example:
    client_max_body_size 100M;
    client_body_buffer_size 100M;
    client_body_timeout 120;

**Imagekit which need reopen the picture soon (Wagtail or so), local filesystem cache**

If you upload an image and the imagekit want to reopen it immediately (to create thumbnails or so) it can fail
because backblaze storage has the file not immediately accessible.
We handle this that way that you can add B2_LOCAL_MEDIA into your settings.

    B2_LOCAL_MEDIA='ML'

M means that the copy of file is saved to the local filesystem MEDIA_ROOT too and the file is opened from this local "cache".
That way the files are soon and faster accessible.
L means that a log files are written into <MEDIA_ROOT>/_log.
With help of logs (files in _log directory) the local media files can be deleted: one hour later or 5 days later.

There is a script (django management command) b2_clear_local_media usable via cron, celery,..
It will delete local media files older than few hours (parameter: --hours) or days (--days).
The script move the deleted logs into _log/history/ (you can prevent this with --no-history).
The affected media files will later be served from backblaze.

Or without deleting of local media files you can simple have primary local media files and their backup on backblaze.

**Without Django**:

You can upload/download single files. This is not suitable for mass backups, see backblaze docs.

.. code-block:: python

    from django_b2.backblaze_b2 import BackBlazeB2
    b2 = BackBlazeB2()
    b2.authorize("production", application_key_id, application_key)
    b2.set_bucket(bucket_name)
    with open(filename, 'rb') as f:
        b2.upload_file(filename, f)
    content = b2.download_file(filename)
    with open(filename2, 'wb') as f:
        f.write(content)

**Upload/backup single file to b2 from console**:

This is implemented in backblaze_b2.py file if called as script.
We don't implement it (yet) as the django management command. That means outside of Django: You can use this too.
And in Django: No need (at 0.2.0) to add this package to INSTALLED_APPS.

You can describe the target bucket in environment variables or in the .ini file. For details:

.. code-block:: bash

    python (path/)backblaze_b2.py --help

**Backup the postgres database**:

Once django-b2 is installed, pgtob2.sh script is available in the virtual environment.
Write 'which pgtob2.sh' for its location.
Read comments inside the script for more info.

**More (this is not well tested)**:

django-tenants instead of django-tenant-schemas? Maybe it could work but the mixin is inside the django-tenant-schemas package.
Add django-tenant-schemas into requirements too but don't add it into INSTALLED_APPS/SHARED_APPS.

storage=B2Storage() in models, turn it off during tests. See https://github.com/pyutil/django-b2/issues/4
To work as real B2Storage, 'B2Storage' string must be contained in settings.DEFAULT_FILE_STORAGE.
Otherwise DEFAULT_FILE_STORAGE will be instantiated.
This makes following in tests possible:
@override_settings(DEFAULT_FILE_STORAGE='django.core.files.storage.FileSystemStorage')

Commit message:

possibility turn off the unique names

docs/usage.rst, after:

=====
Usage
=====

**Django**:

Add this to Django settings

.. code-block:: python

    MEDIA_URL = '/media/'
    DEFAULT_FILE_STORAGE = 'django_b2.storage.B2Storage'                 # if used without django-tenant-schemas
    # DEFAULT_FILE_STORAGE = 'django_b2.tenant_storage.TenantB2Storage'  # if used with django-tenant-schemas
    B2_APP_KEY_ID=000xxxxxxxxxxxx000000000n
    B2_APP_KEY=keyvalue
    B2_BUCKET_NAME=bucketname
    # see bellow:
    B2_FORCE_UNIQUE = False | True  # for v0.7, True is default
    # optional, see bellow:
    MEDIA_ROOT = ..
    B2_LOCAL_MEDIA = ..  # "", "M", "L", "ML"

**Large uploads**:

Nginx large file uploads:
You need at least modify /etc/nginx/nginx.conf, http section, add client... settings.

Read: https://vsoch.github.io/2018/django-nginx-upload/

Example:
    client_max_body_size 100M;
    client_body_buffer_size 100M;
    client_body_timeout 120;

**Upload library which enforces name uniqueness**

django_b2 saves each file into unique folder ie. as <uuid>/name.
This should prevent problems with non unique names.
If this doesn't work properly in your case especially if other tool makes the same thing you should turn this feature off.
Example: django_drf_filepond creates similar uniquely named folders. In such case set

    B2_FORCE_UNIQUE = False

We recommend set this always (False|True) because the default could change in the future.

**Imagekit which need reopen the picture soon (Wagtail or so), local filesystem cache**

If you upload an image and the imagekit want to reopen it immediately (to create thumbnails or so) it can fail
because backblaze storage has the file not immediately accessible.
We handle this that way that you can add B2_LOCAL_MEDIA into your settings.

    B2_LOCAL_MEDIA='ML'

M means that the copy of file is saved to the local filesystem MEDIA_ROOT too and the file is opened from this local "cache".
That way the files are soon and faster accessible.
L means that a log files are written into <MEDIA_ROOT>/_log.
With help of logs (files in _log directory) the local media files can be deleted: one hour later or 5 days later.

There is a script (django management command) b2_clear_local_media usable via cron, celery,..
It will delete local media files older than few hours (parameter: --hours) or days (--days).
The script move the deleted logs into _log/history/ (you can prevent this with --no-history).
The affected media files will later be served from backblaze.

Or without deleting of local media files you can simple have primary local media files and their backup on backblaze.

**Without Django**:

You can upload/download single files. This is not suitable for mass backups, see backblaze docs.

.. code-block:: python

    from django_b2.backblaze_b2 import BackBlazeB2
    b2 = BackBlazeB2()
    b2.authorize("production", application_key_id, application_key)
    b2.set_bucket(bucket_name)
    with open(filename, 'rb') as f:
        b2.upload_file(filename, f)
    content = b2.download_file(filename)
    with open(filename2, 'wb') as f:
        f.write(content)

**Upload/backup single file to b2 from console**:

This is implemented in backblaze_b2.py file if called as script.
We don't implement it (yet) as the django management command. That means outside of Django: You can use this too.
And in Django: No need (at 0.2.0) to add this package to INSTALLED_APPS.

You can describe the target bucket in environment variables or in the .ini file. For details:

.. code-block:: bash

    python (path/)backblaze_b2.py --help

**Backup the postgres database**:

Once django-b2 is installed, pgtob2.sh script is available in the virtual environment.
Write 'which pgtob2.sh' for its location.
Read comments inside the script for more info.

**More (this is not well tested)**:

django-tenants instead of django-tenant-schemas? Maybe it could work but the mixin is inside the django-tenant-schemas package.
Add django-tenant-schemas into requirements too but don't add it into INSTALLED_APPS/SHARED_APPS.

storage=B2Storage() in models, turn it off during tests. See https://github.com/pyutil/django-b2/issues/4
To work as real B2Storage, 'B2Storage' string must be contained in settings.DEFAULT_FILE_STORAGE.
Otherwise DEFAULT_FILE_STORAGE will be instantiated.
This makes following in tests possible:
@override_settings(DEFAULT_FILE_STORAGE='django.core.files.storage.FileSystemStorage')
